---
title: Maximus Lam EDUC 5863 Portfolio
excerpt: Home Page
---
This is my digital portfolio for the EDUC 5863 production assignments.
## Production 1: Power Up

**Definition 1:**
> **game** */gām/ n.* (pl. **-games**) an interactive medium in which players make choices to pursuit some kind of social validation.

This definition of a game classifies a game as an interactive medium. I find this quite compelling, as when you think of a game, you would normally expect there to be some means to interact with the game in order to "play" the game. But do all games need to be interacted with in order to play them? If I, for instance, said to a friend, "Hey, let's play a little game. If it rains tomorrow, you win. If it doesn't rain tomorrow, I win", would that really count as a game? Other than me creating and explaining the rules involved, there really is no interaction on either of our parts, as everything is dependant on the weather and there is nothing we can do about it. However, for some reason, a situation like this still provides a mild sense of excitement and competitive anticipation that a game normally would. Perhaps, praying and hoping for rain tomorrow, or simply the waiting itself could count as an interaction, though I am not really sure about that.

Noting the, "in which players make choices to pursuit some kind of social validation", part of the definition however, I would have to disagree. I agree that there are many games in which social validation plays a huge role, such as competitive multiplayer games where players can be socially validated by defeating opponents, cooperative multiplayer games where players can be socially validated by fulfilling contributions for their teammates, or even single player games where players can be socially validated by sharing that they completed the game to their friends. However, it is not as though a pursuit for social validation must be present in order to play a game. For instance, there may exist games that are considered socially unacceptable to play, yet I could still play them regardless of whether I am socially validated or not. Would that no longer be considered a game? Perhaps I could play a game simply to pass the time or just for my own personal curiosity. Would that no longer be considered a game? If I play a game by myself on a secluded island with no access to other people or the outside world, would that no longer be considered a game?

---
****Definition 2:****
> **game** */gām/ n.* (pl. **-games**) a challenge characterized by a playful relationship.

Now, this is a definition I find interesting. Here, a game is classified as a challenge instead of an interactive medium. This means interaction is no longer a requirement to play, but rather, some form of challenge. As the weather game example I provided earlier may or may not be considered a game under the previous definition, with this definition, it fully checks out, as it does not matter whether or not we are interacting. Both me and my friend are playing a game where we are placed under a kind of challenge or duel where the victor depends on whether it rains tomorrow or not. And, of course this is characterized by a playful relationship as this is simply a challenge between me and my friend.

To further comment on the, "characterized by a playful relationship", part of the definition, I feel that this is necesssary. Defining a game merely as a challenge would be too vague, as there are many challenges that would not necessarily be considered a game or game-like in any way. For example, for some, it may be a challenge to wake up early. Waking up early is not a game. However, you can turn it into a game by having a playful relationship with it: "Let's see if I can wake up early tomorrow!; Let's see how many days in a row I can wake up early!; Let's see how early I can wake up!; etc. By adding the "playful relationship" part to the definition, I interpret it as another way of saying to do it "for fun". Challenging yourself to wake up for fun is totally a game. While many may disagree, I feel that any challenge that is completed for fun can be considered a game. That being said, I wonder if there is any game out there that is not a challenge.
